Guiding New Adventurers: Local Setup & First Contribution 🛠️
Your goal is to make the initial setup as smooth and encouraging as possible, especially for those new to coding or open source. This guide can be presented during a dedicated session or shared as a resource in your Discord's #getting-started channel.

1. Preparation: Before the Setup Session 📋
Before you start guiding contributors, ensure these are ready:

Updated CONTRIBUTING.md: This file on your GitHub repository is crucial. It should contain:

A clear Code of Conduct (which you have!).

Detailed Prerequisites (Node.js, npm/Yarn, Git).

Step-by-step setup instructions (clone, install, .env setup, run).

Branching strategy (e.g., main, develop, feature/).

Pull Request (PR) guidelines (what to include in a PR description).

Issue claiming process (commenting "I'm claiming this Quest").

.env.example file: Provide a template file in your repository showing all required environment variables, but without actual values. This makes setup clear and prevents sensitive info from being committed.

"Good First Issues" Labeled: Ensure your GitHub repository has several issues clearly labeled good first issue and documentation. These should be simple, well-defined tasks that don't require deep project knowledge.

Discord Channels: Have #getting-started and #help-desk channels ready on Discord.

Live Demo Environment: Have the project running locally on your machine, ready to share your screen for a live demo.

2. Introduction: Your First Quest Briefing 📜
Start by setting the stage and reassuring everyone.

Welcome & Reassurance: "Welcome, new Adventurers! Today, we're tackling your very first Quest: setting up The Adventurers Guild project on your local machines. Don't worry if this feels daunting; we'll go step-by-step, and no question is too basic."

Why Local Setup Matters: "Setting up locally is like getting your personal 'Digital Forge' ready. It's where you'll craft your code, test your solutions, and prepare your contributions for the Guild."

The Goal: "By the end of this, you'll have the project running on your computer, ready to pick up your first 'Quest' (GitHub issue)."

3. Step-by-Step Local Setup Guide 💻
Walk them through each command, explaining why they're doing it.

A. Prerequisites: Equipping Your Adventurer 🎒
Install Git:

"Git is your essential Adventuring tool for version control. It helps us track changes to our code."

Action: Guide them to download/install Git (e.g., git-scm.com/downloads).

Verification: git --version

Install Node.js & npm/Yarn:

"Node.js is our JavaScript runtime, and npm (or Yarn) is our package manager for all our project's dependencies."

Action: Guide them to download/install Node.js (which includes npm) from nodejs.org. Recommend the LTS version.

Verification: node -v and npm -v (or yarn -v).

Install a Code Editor:

"You'll need a good code editor. VS Code is highly recommended and free."

Action: Suggest VS Code (code.visualstudio.com).

B. Cloning the Repository: Entering the Forge 🏰
Fork the Repository:

"First, you'll fork The Adventurers Guild repository on GitHub. This creates your own personal copy of the project under your GitHub account. It's like having your own private workshop!"

Action: Guide them to github.com/LarytheLord/Adventurers-Guild, click the 'Fork' button.

Clone Your Fork:

"Now, we'll bring that copy to your local machine using git clone."

Action: Go to their forked repository on GitHub, click the green 'Code' button, copy the HTTPS URL.

Command: git clone [YOUR_FORK_URL]

Example: git clone https://github.com/YourGitHubUsername/Adventurers-Guild.git

Action: cd Adventurers-Guild (navigate into the project folder).

C. Installing Dependencies: Gathering Your Tools 🧰
Install Project Dependencies:

"Our project relies on many external libraries. This command installs them all."

Command: npm install (or yarn install if they prefer Yarn).

Troubleshooting: "If you see errors, don't panic! We'll help you in the #help-desk channel."

D. Environment Variables: Powering Up ⚡
Create .env.local:

"Many projects need secret keys or configuration settings. We use an .env.local file for this."

Action: "Copy the contents of the .env.example file into a new file named .env.local in the root of your project."

Explanation: "For the MVP, you might not have many external keys, but it's good practice. For now, you might just need NEXT_PUBLIC_VERCEL_URL if you're deploying, or DATABASE_URL if you're setting up a local database."

Crucial: "Never commit your .env.local file to GitHub!"

E. Running the Project Locally: Seeing the Guild Live! 🌟
Start the Development Server:

"This command starts our application on your computer."

Command: npm run dev (or yarn dev).

Verification: "You should see a message like 'Ready on http://localhost:3000'. Open that link in your browser!"

Troubleshooting: "If it doesn't open, check your terminal for errors. We're here to help!"

4. Your First Contribution: Embarking on a Quest 🗺️
Once the project is running, guide them on making their first actual contribution.

Find a "Good First Issue":

"Head to our GitHub repository's Issues tab and filter by the good first issue label. These are designed for new contributors."

Action: Show them how to find and filter issues on GitHub.

Claim Your Quest:

"Found an issue? Comment on it, saying 'I'd like to work on this Quest!' This marks it as yours."

Create a New Branch:

"Before you code, create a new branch for your changes. This keeps your work separate and organized."

Command: git checkout -b feature/your-issue-name (e.g., git checkout -b feature/add-dark-mode-button).

Code Your Solution:

"Make your changes in your code editor. Test them locally!"

Commit Your Changes:

"Save your work with clear commit messages."

Command: git add . (to stage all changes)

Command: git commit -m "feat: Add dark mode toggle button" (use descriptive messages).

Push Your Branch:

"Send your changes from your local machine to your forked GitHub repository."

Command: git push origin feature/your-issue-name

Open a Pull Request (PR):

"Go to your forked repository on GitHub. You'll see a prompt to 'Compare & pull request'. Click it!"

Action: Guide them to fill out the PR template: describe changes, link the issue, request review.

Explanation: "This is how you submit your Quest for review. Our Quest Reviewers will look at your code, provide feedback, and help get it merged!"

5. Support & Resources: Your Guild Guides 🤝
Discord #help-desk: "This is your primary support channel. Post any questions, errors, or roadblocks you encounter. Don't get stuck in silence!"

@Guild Guides & Mentors: "Our experienced Adventurers and GSSoC mentors are here to help. Don't hesitate to tag them if you need specific guidance."

CONTRIBUTING.md: "Always refer to this file on GitHub for detailed guidelines."

Code of Conduct: "Remember to always uphold our Code of Conduct in all interactions."